---
title: "Correlated variability modifies working memory fidelity in primate prefrontal neuronal ensembles"
collection: publications
permalink:
date: 2017-03-08
venue: 'Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences'
paperurl: "http://www.pnas.org/content/early/2017/03/07/1619949114.full"
citation: <b>ML Leavitt</b>, F Pieper, AJ Sachs, JC Martinez-Trujillo
image: /images/publications-2017-03-08-correlated-variability-affects-working-memory-image.png
---
<i>Accessible abstract:</i> Is the whole more than the sum of its parts? This question is surprisingly relevant to neuroscience. Neurophysiological experiments have traditionally involved recording from individual neurons serially, then aggregating these asynchronous measurements to derive conclusions about how the brain works. Thus it is extremely important to know, but remains poorly-understood how larger ensembles of simultaneously-recorded neurons encode information and give rise to behavior. Thankfully, recent technological advances have dramatically reduced the challenges of recording large numbers of neurons simultaneously in behaving animals.<br><br>We conducted an experiment to examine the role of network-level phenomena in spatial working memory (SWM) coding in prefrontal cortex (PFC). We used machine learning techniques to assess the information content of neuronal ensembles, and found a number of interesting discrepancies between single neuron and ensemble coding models of SWM. First, ensembles containing the strongest SWM signals are not always composed of the most informative single neurons. We also found that network effects (“noise correlations”) can dramatically alter the fidelity of SWM signals. Finally, we found that <b>neurons that do not contain SWM information in isolation can still increase SWM information when part of an ensemble</b>. This final results is especially relevant, as these “non-selective” neurons are traditionally overlooked by researchers and omitted from models and analyses. More broadly, <b>our results highlight limitations in the traditional neurophysiological method of examining neurons in isolation, emphasizing the relevance of ensemble-level phenomena in building a comprehensive understanding of the brain</b>. Much can be lost when one attempts to describe a network by aggregating the properties of its constituent components.
